# Oil production - Data package

This data package contains the data that powers the chart ["Oil production"](https://ourworldindata.org/grapher/oil-production-by-country?v=1&csvType=full&useColumnShortNames=false) on the Our World in Data website. It was downloaded on February 09, 2025.

### Active Filters

A filtered subset of the full data was downloaded. The following filters were applied:

## CSV Structure

The high level structure of the CSV file is that each row is an observation for an entity (usually a country or region) and a timepoint (usually a year).

The first two columns in the CSV file are "Entity" and "Code". "Entity" is the name of the entity (e.g. "United States"). "Code" is the OWID internal entity code that we use if the entity is a country or region. For normal countries, this is the same as the [iso alpha-3](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-3) code of the entity (e.g. "USA") - for non-standard countries like historical countries these are custom codes.

The third column is either "Year" or "Day". If the data is annual, this is "Year" and contains only the year as an integer. If the column is "Day", the column contains a date string in the form "YYYY-MM-DD".

The final column is the data column, which is the time series that powers the chart. If the CSV data is downloaded using the "full data" option, then the column corresponds to the time series below. If the CSV data is downloaded using the "only selected data visible in the chart" option then the data column is transformed depending on the chart type and thus the association with the time series might not be as straightforward.

## Metadata.json structure

The .metadata.json file contains metadata about the data package. The "charts" key contains information to recreate the chart, like the title, subtitle etc.. The "columns" key contains information about each of the columns in the csv, like the unit, timespan covered, citation for the data etc..

## About the data

Our World in Data is almost never the original producer of the data - almost all of the data we use has been compiled by others. If you want to re-use data, it is your responsibility to ensure that you adhere to the sources' license and to credit them correctly. Please note that a single time series may have more than one source - e.g. when we stich together data from different time periods by different producers or when we calculate per capita metrics using population data from a second source.

## Detailed information about the data


## Oil production
Measured in terawatt-hours.
Last updated: June 20, 2024  
Next update: June 2025  
Date range: 1900–2023  
Unit: terawatt-hours  


### How to cite this data

#### In-line citation
If you have limited space (e.g. in data visualizations), you can use this abbreviated in-line citation:  
Energy Institute - Statistical Review of World Energy (2024); The Shift Data Portal (2019) – with major processing by Our World in Data

#### Full citation
Energy Institute - Statistical Review of World Energy (2024); The Shift Data Portal (2019) – with major processing by Our World in Data. “Oil production” [dataset]. Energy Institute, “Statistical Review of World Energy”; The Shift Data Portal, “Energy production from fossil fuels” [original data].
Source: Energy Institute - Statistical Review of World Energy (2024), The Shift Data Portal (2019) – with major processing by Our World In Data

### What you should know about this data
* Includes crude oil, shale oil, oil sands, condensates (lease condensate or gas condensates that require further refining) and NGLs (natural gas liquids - ethane, LPG and naphtha separated from the production of natural gas). Excludes liquid fuels from other sources such as biofuels and synthetic derivatives of coal and natural gas. This also excludes liquid fuel adjustment factors such as refinery processing gain. Excludes oil shales/kerogen extracted in solid form.

### Sources

#### Energy Institute – Statistical Review of World Energy
Retrieved on: 2024-06-20  
Retrieved from: https://www.energyinst.org/statistical-review/  

#### The Shift Data Portal – Energy production from fossil fuels
Retrieved on: 2023-12-12  
Retrieved from: https://www.theshiftdataportal.org/  

#### Notes on our processing step for this indicator
- The data is generated by combining the latest data from [the Energy Institute Statistical Review of World Energy](https://www.energyinst.org/statistical-review) and [The Shift Dataportal](https://www.theshiftdataportal.org/energy). The Energy Institute provides fossil fuel production data from 1965 onwards (and crude prices from 1861 onwards). The Shift Dataportal provides long-term data from 1900, but only extends to 2016. To maintain consistency with other energy data, we prioritize the Energy Institute data - meaning if they provide data for the given country and year, this data is used. Where data is not available from the Energy Institute for a given country, or pre-1965 we rely on data from The Shift Dataportal.
- We have converted primary production in exajoules to terawatt-hours using the conversion factor: 1,000,000 / 3,600 ~ 278.
- Production per capita has been calculated by dividing by our population dataset, based on [different sources](https://ourworldindata.org/population-sources).


    